NMS-12999: Move Provisiond adapter docs to Reference (#3693)
OpenNMS/opennms: docs/modules/reference/pages/provisioning/adapters/snmp-asset.adoc

[[adapter-snmp-asset]]
= SNMP Asset

The SNMP asset provisioning adapter collects SNMP values to populate asset records for the node.
This can be very useful for automatically populating asset fields in a large number of managed systems.
Depending on the SNMP MIBs that your devices support, you could either fill in some of the existing asset fields (for example, `manufacturer`, `vendor`, `modelnumber`, and/or `serialnumber`) or construct a custom-formatted message for the comment field.

The SNMP asset provisioning adapter is invoked every time a node is added or updated by provisiond.

> With the default provisiond configuration, the update will take place once every 24 hours.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the default provisiond configuration, the update takes place once every 24 hours.
```

You can reload the provisiond SnmpAssetProvisioningAdapter with this command (or just restart OpenNMS)

[source, console]
----
${OPENNMS_HOME}/bin# ./send-event.pl uei.opennms.org/internal/reloadDaemonConfig --parm 'daemonName Provisiond.SnmpAssetProvisioningAdapter'
----

> NOTE: By default, the SnmpAssetProvisionAdapter runs 5 minutes after a Provisiond `nodeScanCompleted` event is sent to indicate that Provisiond completed the import.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: By default, the SnmpAssetProvisionAdapter runs 5 minutes after a provisiond `nodeScanCompleted` event is sent to indicate that provisiond completed the import.
```

<snmp-asset-adapter-configuration>
    <package name="ciscoWireless">
    <!-- A Cisco wireless sysoid, for example purposes only :) -->
    <sysoid>.1.3.6.1.4.1.9.1.379</sysoid>
    <assetField name="region" formatString="${gsmCountry}">
        <mibObjs>
            <!-- A Cisco 3G WAN adapter OID -->
            <mibObj oid=".1.3.6.1.4.1.9.9.661.1.3.2.1.8" alias="gsmCountry"/>
            </mibObjs>
    </assetField>
    </package>
    <package name="Cisco">
	<sysoidMask>.1.3.6.1.4.1.9.</sysoidMask>
        <assetField name="ram" formatString="${processorRam}">
            <mibObjs>
                <mibObj oid=".1.3.6.1.4.1.9.3.6.6.0" alias="processorRam"/>
            </mibObjs>
        </assetField>
    </package>
</snmp-asset-adapter-configuration>
----

Variables in the formatString using the `$\{token}` syntax will be replaced by values that are defined by the list of mibObj parameters.

In this configuration example, every node whose sysoid equals .1.3.6.1.4.1.9.1.379 will be matched by the "ciscoWireless" package.
The adapter will get the OID value .1.3.6.1.4.1.9.9.661.1.3.2.1.8 and place the value in the "region" field in the asset database.

> You may want to snmpwalk your target nodes and see if there are any interesting identifiers or string values that you would like to see in an asset field first.

Reviewer: Will users be familiar with snmpwalk? Do we need to share a link?

Author: I hope so.  It's referenced in other areas without specific examples, IIRC.
